

CSE 320 Spring 2015

Computer Project #6 -- Floating Point Representation and Operations

Assignment Overview:

  For this assignment, you will develop a C function which multiplies single
  precision floating point values without the use of floating point hardware.

  It is worth 30 points (3% of course grade), and must be completed no later
  than 11:59 PM on Thursday, March 5.

Assignment Specifications:

  1) Some computer systems do not have floating point hardware (they have an
  Integer Unit, but not a Floating Point Unit).  Thus, floating point
  operations on those systems must be performed using software.

  You will develop the C function listed below:

    float mult( float, float );

  The two arguments are the single precision floating point values to be
  multiplied, and the return value is the product of those two values.

  The value returned from function "mult" will be as accurate as possible.

  Function "mult" will use the following rules for special values:  if either
  operand is not-a-number, the result is not-a-number.  If neither operand is
  not-a-number and either operand is infinity, the result is infinity.  If
  neither operand is not-a-number nor infinity and either operand is zero, the
  result is zero.  Denormal operands will be processed as the value zero.

  Function "mult" (and any associated "helper" functions which you develop)
  will constitute a module named "proj06.support.c".  The functions in that
  support module will not call any C library functions, and they will not use
  any floating point operations.  There is one exception:  the functions may
  use the assignment operation to copy a floating point value from one
  variable to another.

  2) You will develop a driver module to test your implementation of the
  support module.  The source code for the driver module must be in a separate
  file.  All output will be appropriately labeled.

  Your driver module will not be interactive.  If it accepts any input, you
  will supply that input in a text file named "proj06.tests".

Assignment Deliverables:

  The deliverables for this assignment are:

    proj06.makefile  -- the makefile which produces "proj06"
    proj06.support.c -- the source code for your support module
    proj06.driver.c  -- the source code for your driver module
    proj06.tests     -- the input to your driver module, if needed

  Be sure to use the specified file names, and to submit your files for
  grading via the "handin" program.



Assignment Notes:

  1) The Murdocca and Heuring text contains information about floating point
  representation and operations (particularly pages 45-48 and pages 74-76).

  2) Please note that your source code must be translated by "gcc", which is a
  C compiler and accepts C source statements (a subset of C++).

  3) Please note that your driver module may not be written as an interactive
  program, where the user supplies input in response to prompts.  Instead,
  your test cases will either be included in the source code as literal
  constants, or will be supplied as inputs to the driver module in a file
  named "proj06.tests".

  If your driver requires no inputs, your solution will be executed using:

    proj06

  If your driver does require inputs, your solution will be executed using:

    proj06 < proj06.tests

  4) In order to work with a 32-bit item as both a floating point value and an
  integer value, you might consider using a union.  For example:

    #include <stdio.h>

    union sp_item
    {
      float frep;
      unsigned irep;
    };

    int main()
    {
      union sp_item num;

      num.frep = 1.5;

      printf( "Real: %f  Hex integer: %08x \n", num.frep, num.irep );
    }

  When compiled and executed, that program produces the following:

    Real: 1.500000  Hex integer: 3fc00000 

  The memory location "num" can be referenced as an object of type "float"
  (using "num.frep") and an object of type "unsigned int" (using "num.irep").

  5) An outline of one method for computing C = A * B is given below:

    Extract sign, exponent, and fraction fields of both A and B.
    Place leading bit in both significands.
    Determine sign of C based on signs of A and B.
    Compute exponent of C based on exponents of A and B.
    Compute significand of C = significand of A * significand of B.
    Normalize significand of C.
    Insert sign, exponent, and fraction fields of C.

  Note that this outline does not describe special cases, such as operands
  which are infinity, not-a-number, zero or denormal numbers.

