

CSE 320 Spring 2015

Computer Project #11 -- SPARC Floating Point Operations

Assignment Overview:

  This assignment develops familiarity with SPARC floating point operations.
  You will develop the assembly language functions described below, which
  represent a subset of the functions available in a math library.

  It is worth 40 points (4% of course grade), and must be completed no later
  than 11:59 PM on Thursday, April 23.

Assignment Specifications:

  1) The math library subset will consist of the following functions:

    double absolute( double X );
    double modulo( double X, double Y );
    double factorial( unsigned N );
    double power( double X, unsigned N );
    double cosine( double X );
 
  Function "absolute" will compute and return the absolute value of X.

  Function "modulo" will compute and return the remainder of X divided by Y,
  where the remainder has the same sign as X and has a magnitude less than the
  magnitude of Y.  If Y is equal to zero, the function will return the
  floating point value NaN ("Not A Number").

  Function "factorial" will compute and return the factorial of N.  It will
  convert N to a double precision floating point value and compute the
  factorial of N using floating point calculations.

  Function "power" will compute and return X raised to the Nth power.

  Function "cosine" will compute and return the value of the cosine of X.

  Function "cosine" will use the power series approximation method (described
  below) to compute the cosine of X.  The computed values will be accurate to
  at least eight fractional digits.

  If overflow occurs during the computations inside any of the functions, that
  function will return the floating point value Inf ("Infinity").

  2) The functions in the support module will not call any C library functions
  (such as "printf", "pow" or "cos").

  The functions in the support module (as well as any other support functions
  you choose to develop) will be implemented in assembly language.

  3) You will develop a driver module in C to test your implementation of the
  functions in your support module.  The source code for the driver module
  must be in a separate file.  All output will be appropriately labeled.

  Your driver module will not be interactive.  If it accepts any input, you
  will supply that input in a text file named "proj11.tests".



Assignment Deliverables:

  The deliverables for this assignment are:

    proj11.makefile  -- the makefile which produces "proj11"
    proj11.support.s -- the source code for your support module
    proj11.driver.c  -- the source code for your driver module
    proj11.tests     -- the input to your driver, if needed

  Be sure to submit your files for grading via the "handin" program.

Assignment Notes:

  1) For your convenience, the following file is available:

    /user/cse320/Projects/project11.support.h

  That file contains the function declarations listed above.

  2) Please note that the floating point registers are global; they are not
  windowed via the "SAVE" and "RESTORE" instructions.

  3) The conventions used for passing floating point parameters between
  subprograms are similar to those used for integer parameters:  all arguments
  (including floating point operands) are passed to functions in the integer
  registers, which are managed using the "save/restore" convention.  However,
  a floating point value is returned from a function in register f0, rather
  than register i0/o0.

  4) A power series can be used to approximate the value of many trigonometric
  functions.

  Using "!" to represent the factorial function, the cosine of a value can be
  approximated using:

                      2          4          6          8
    cosine(X) = 1 - (X / 2!) + (X / 4!) - (X / 6!) + (X / 8!) - ....

  An individual term in this power series can be expressed as:

        k  2k
    (-1)  X
    -----------
      (2k)!

  where "k" represents the position in the power series (k = 0, 1, 2, ....).

